all right so where I be if has gotten
2019 where the sci-fi fair and we here
with Edgar someone who's a great crunch
paper to contribute or appeal so tell us
a little bit more about what you're
doing and to show everybody so to be
able to with six at the same time that's
pretty cool and you know like with this
kind of technology that we know that is
so deep and like in in the back hand so
to speak it's difficult to get the
observability and it's it's difficult to
understand what's going on so like
little experiments like this that
actually show you that you can touch
that you can see blinking in real life
as we're going to show now are super
important to exactly you normally don't
see in the end you're just maintaining a
shared been set but behind there are all
the ducts of the IPSS stack all the feet
to be for using peers for using secure
channels or using multi streams we're
using CR disease to sink the state we're
using the ipfs chambers we use in the
repo vide astrology
we're using about every piece of the
stuff to make a distributed application
on top of a distributed application
normally you don't feel that everything
is summarized tonight just doing awesome
so can you show us what's going on here
what do you have here I have a computer
which is now adding random pins that is
custom I have a computer which is adding
random pills
beard pins to this Buster and what we
see here is that every time a pink comes
through in its cluster beer we see this
flashing green light and we see how one
more little box appears on this column
once that column is filled up it gets
cleaned up and a new box appears over
there so the first column means one
thing the second column means five pins
the third column means 25 pins the
fourth column means 125 pins and so on
so like a little abacus right it's kind
of like a little abacus so that's
keeping the count of how many files you
stored actual squares on all the so now
we have probably over 625 things already
yeah and we see that as they come
through yeah 625 plus everywhere around
like a thousand pins and they're slowly
going on one by one you can see the red
light is also turning and the red lights
are blinking and that means the number
of Pierce core connected so there should
be in total there should be about six
red lights and then people into
interacting with these cluster nodes
right now what I like can can I pin some
content in these clusters how would I do
it you can pin in several ways one way
we enable people to be promised and I
are sleeping mode
they can just go on RC channel yeah say
which is ipfs camp right now yes you can
say freedom something in a CD or bin
slash IP NSS whatever address yeah an
actor just showed you one single box but
there's actually six of them so do you
want to get the cluster over there so
that's a ipfs cluster running here so
tell us a little bit more about how
these are connected and how they're
collaborating together basically using
p2p this is a likely to be storm they're
forming a network and as you see the the
actual number of pins is more or less
the same in all of them they will catch
up to the same number when everyone
converges so they're converging
eventually the collector consensual been
in the same thing right the state in all
of them will be the same and this state
is compared in using CR disease suite so
that means that if I take one of these
box and I smash it on the ground and you
know I break it completely the contents
are still being served from five other
boxes precisely and if you managed to
plug in it again and the others made
some progress the box that came behind
will catch up won't catch up
that's awesome so you're creating
redundancy here for the for the data
that you storing in ni PFS
personalization
and reliability that's that's pretty
cool so what's on the roadmap right now
for IVFs cluster where are we going
towards with with this project
our main feature which is upcoming and
our next release are collaborative
clusters is the idea that you can
collaboratively participate in a cluster
without exposing your cluster beer or
your ipfs daemon to two people that you
don't trust therefore we will have some
insight maintainer yet which will decide
what goes into what our type for example
data data you will have a curator which
adds climate data to certain Glasser we
will have followers in that cluster that
do not necessarily trust each other but
trust a curator of the data they will be
able to collaboratively pack up that
data on ipfs races by running the
cluster demon right right so you're
having kind of like one leader be kind
of like the trust reference that you can
create not necessarily one either you
could have multiple trusted peers the
article appears that other people trust
you to maintain their archive yeah
everyone without giving privileged
access to everyone is to trust everyone
you will have peers which are there just
to receive the updates it's kind of like
it creates some level of Federation
right in the sense that you have
different layers you have different like
network segments and so on that you
trust that you don't transfer without
like having a fully connected mesh
yes you seem pub/sub we can have this
sort of loosely connected network and
what we essentially have this what we
call the trusted peers and the rest we
call them followers so for people who
are just following Vincent's nice super
excited dressed in architecture super
exciting that's very cool
all right so is there it's something
else that you want to say to everybody
watching here
come join the cluster friar
I feel faster next release will be
amazing super easy to set up
we are revamping the documentation so we
will have much better documentation go
ahead and try it out it's a very nice
project go ahead and try it out